# sfadmin-training-javascript09
### Scripting with the DOM

#### What You’ll Learn in This Hour:
* The concept of nodes
* The different types of nodes
* Using nodeName, nodeType, and nodeValue
* Using the childNodes collection
* Selecting elements with getElementsByTagName()
* How to use Mozilla’s DOM Inspector
* How to create new elements
* Ways to add, edit, and remove child nodes
* Dynamically loading JavaScript files
* Changing element attributes

You’ve already learned about the W3C DOM and, in the code examples of previous
hours, you used various DOM objects, properties, and methods.

In this hour you begin exploring how JavaScript can directly interact with the
DOM. In particular, you learn some new ways to navigate around the DOM,
selecting particular DOM objects that represent parts of the page’s HTML
contents. You see how to create new elements, how to add, edit, and remove nodes
of the DOM tree, and how to manipulate elements’ attributes.

#### Exercises
* Using the nodeType information listed in Table 9.1, write a
function to find all the HTML comments in the body section
of a page, and concatenate them into a single string. Add
some comments to the code listed in Listing 9.2; then
introduce and test your new function.
* If you have Firefox, download and install the DOM Inspector
and familiarize yourself with its interface. Use the program
to investigate the DOM of some of your favorite web pages.
* Having used the insertBefore() method, you might reasonably
expect that there would be an insertAfter() method
available. Unfortunately,  that’s not so. Can you write an
insertAfter() function to do this task? Use similar
arguments to insertBefore(); that is, insertAfter(newNode,
targetNode). (Hint: Use insertBefore() and the nextSibling
property.)
* When you click on a menu item generated by the code in
Listing 9.6, the page scrolls to the relevant item. To return
to the menu, you have to manually scroll back up.

Can you modify the script such that, as well as inserting an
anchor, it inserts a Back to Top link before each H2 element?
(Hint: You don’t need to add a new link, just add an href
and some link text to each anchor.)
